Now that we've got our flapping bird and our background we want to start to get the bird interacting
with us.
So Flappy bird has got a very simple control mechanism.
Essentially all you need to do is touch the screen and then the flappy bird will start flying around.
So how do we get a tap to be detected.
It's very straightforward.
We do it in the window method and we look for GDX dart input and then you can see there's lots of possible
options so you can even work with the accelerometer and other fancy bits and bobs.
We want to look for just touched so this will be called every time the screen is tapped.
So for now let's just log something saying that it's been tapped when you're working with IGDA zap.
It's best to use the GDX app logging commands.
So we use GDX start up log and then something like touched.
Yep
there we go.
So now we should find of course that we get something added to the logs every time we touch the screen.
And what we actually want is for this bird to drop out of the sky.
And then when we tap the screen for the bird to essentially be given a shelf as if something's hit it
from underneath and it flies up and then continues its fall.
So essentially we want to create a gravity system which is actually surprisingly easy to create.
Here we go.
So let's get the logs showing and then I'll tap the screen and there we go.
You can see they're definitely responding to that touch.
OK.
So if we wanted to move the bird talking let's set up gravity and then we'll set up our touch to interact
with that.
So for our gravity we're going to need to know two things about this bird.
We're going to need to know its position and its velocity or its speed.
So let's set that up
so we'll create these as floats and then I'm going to call the position bird.
Why now.
The x coordinate of the bird is always going to be the same.
That's the horizontal coordinate because it's always going to be in the center of the screen.
It appears to be moving to the right but it actually stays in the center of the screen all the time.
So it's only the Y or vertical position that will change.
And also that 0 initially.
But we don't want it to be zero for long because we want it to be equal to where the bird starts.
So that's going to be initially this position here.
Now we could build this into the Renda method but we only need to get the height once right at the beginning.
So to make it more efficient we'll do it in the create method.
So it only happens once.
So we want bird Y to be set to GDX dark graphics don't get height and then birds top flap state to get
height divided by two.
And both these birds have the same height.
The only difference between them is one of the wings up and the other has got the wings down so actually
it doesn't matter which one we use.
So just to make things a little clearer I'm going to use birds zero rather than birds flap state.
OK so now this will work.
As it stands in the same way as it has already.
So let's set up our velocity which is going to be how fast the bird is moving and again after that initially
to be zero.
And then what will the is.
Will increase the velocity each time.
The rendah loop is called and then will increase or decrease the Y.
So the position of the bird by the velocity.
So this is going to increase the velocity.
Each time the Renda loop is called and it's going to decrease the birds y coordinate by the velocity.
So we're going to get this effect of gravity as it falls.
It's going to fall faster and faster.
Now one thing I'm going to do before we run that is if if this is how you run it then the bird will
likely drop off the bottom of the screen before you can do anything about it.
So I'm going to create a variable that will need anyway.
It's an integer called game state.
And this will just keep track of the state of the game.
So initially we're going to obviously just have the bird hovering in the middle as it is just that until
the user taps the screen and then gravity will kick in.
So for all of this we need to check if
game state is not zero or
so we're going to do all of the processing only if the game state is not saying we're And then when
the game is touched the screen is touched.
We're going to set game state
equal to one.
Now I'm actually going to just copy that and we're going to have this in an else statement.
There because we only need to do this particular check if the game state is zero.
Most of the time especially when there's lots going on the game state is not going to be zero.
So to save having to do that check every time we'll put it inside an else statement here.
And of course when you're making a game you do need to be fairly careful about system resources and
do things as efficiently as possible.
So we'll take reasonable steps to make our game efficient even though our game isn't particularly resource
heavy.
OK.
So that will make game state equal to one which will then kick in with our velocity and our bird movement.
And of course we will need to
just copy that part of the code into games tapings there because we still want to see the background
and the flappy bird either way.
In fact while compiling compiling Oh just change it so that
we get that every time.
So we don't have to have the Katowice
that we got.
So it's only this velocity which is changing everything.
It makes more sense probably to put that at the end rather than at the beginning then it will do the
recalculated locations depending on the velocity etc..
And we want the flip state calculations to happen either way as well.
So there'll be a lot more code in this if game state is not zero or part because this is maybe where
we put our game logic and our tubes and everything else.
But for now it's pretty pretty very it would go.
So let's tap.
There we go.
Fantastic.
Now what was find that a little bit slower than I would have liked.
So you can of course experiment with how you want this to work.
But what I'm going to do is set a another variable here called gravity.
And because one seemed to be a little bit slow I'm going to initially set it to be equal to two actually
let's make it a flight because we're going to be using it to work with flights and you might want to
have 1.5 if you want to get it just right.
So instead of increasing velocity by one will increase it by gravity.
OK.
So we'll see how that works.
Now the way we want our interaction to work is if the game state is not zero.
So if we're playing the game we won't when the use the taps to screen
the birds to receive essentially a shove upwards which is the same thing as giving the bird a certain
velocity.
Now I've played around with this and I think a velocity of minus 20 works quite well.
But let's run it and take a look.
So if we give the bird a velocity of minus 20 because we're subtracting the velocity each time that
will subtract a negative number.
So it will add to the bed height and the bird will shoot up into the air.
Now slight alteration as well I think it makes just a little bit more sense.
Even that will work in much the same way to adjust the birds
velocity and location just after the touch rather than before.
So let's give it a try now.
So once there we get and you can see you can now tap and the bird does indeed head up what's
and then falls back down to actually looking at that.
Maybe let's try something like 30 and see how that works.
And one alteration before we're done with our game controls is I found during development it's frustrating
that the bird disappears off the bottom of the screen.
And so it's difficult to test things.
So what I'm going to do to avoid that is look at bird wide and if Bird Y is less than zero or in fact
let's do it the other way around.
If bird Y is greater than zero
so this will stop the bird going off the bottom of the screen it will stop also.
However our ability to shoot the bird up.
So let's have a quick or velocity is less than zero.
And then that will allow us to shoot the bird up either when we're in flying mode.
So we're in above the bottom of the screen or if we give it a tap.
So essentially it will allow us to move the bed up wherever we like but it will stop the bird moving
downwards once it gets to the bottom of the screen we just make our lives a lot easier when we're doing
testing.
We didn't have to get in there and keep the bird at the top of the screen all the time.
So here we go.
Yes.
I'm liking the way that that moves around now and then see what happens.
The bottom of the screen then the bird stops and we can still move the bat upwards.
So believe me that don't make it that will make life a lot easier when we're testing OK.
So now we've created our interaction with our bird.
We've actually got quite a long way already into a game creation.
Our next step is to bring in our troops and start creating several of them and get them moving from
right to left and we'll do that in the next few.